readme.md, before:

# **Intersect**

A compiled language that is **explicit and versatile**.

## How it works

**Intersect** compiles utilizing the *LLVMLite* python module by *Numba*.  It utilizes a complex concrete syntax tree to handle it's compile time mechanisms such as it's garbage collector, minimal function/struct emmitter and mangler, automatic typing, and much more.

## Language Conventions

### Comments

**Intersect** uses cPython style comments:

```py
# This is a comment.
```

For multiline comments use:

```py
#:
    This is a multiline/closed comment.
:#
```

### Capitalization

In **Intersect**, keywords are explicitly named.  Ex:

```rust
struct StructName<TemplateType> {

    attribute:TemplateType;

    operator == (self:$StructName<TemplateType>, other:$StructName<TemplateType>) {
        return self.attribute == self.attribute;
    }
}
```

### Operator Macros (Work in progress)

Operator macros let you implement extra operators with explicit names for classes.  This allows for a more declarative syntax.

```rust
macro operator binary equals;

struct StructName<TemplateType> {

    data:TemplateType;

    operator equals (self:$StructName<TemplateType>, other:$StructName<TemplateType>) ~> bool {
        return self.data == self.data;
    }
}

func main() {
    let s1:StructName<i32>;
    let s2:StructName<i32>;
    s1.data = 1;
    s2.data = 1;

    libc_printf("equal operator result %i\n":$c8, s1 equals s2);
    return;
}
```

### Automatic Memory Management (Work in progress)

**Intersect**'s automatic memory allocation is confined to scope.  `manage` prefixes a *type* as a managed heap allocated type.  `allocate` then returns an instance of something equivalent to this struct:

```rust
macro operator unary clone;

struct HeapMemory<Type>{
    data:$Type;
    has_data:bool;

    operator delete (self:$HeapMemory<Type>) {
        if self.points_to_memory {
            free?<Type>(self.data);
        }
        return;
    }

    operator clone (self:$HeapMemory<Type>) ~> $HeapMemory<Type> {
        # clone self.data
        return #: Clone of self.data :#;
    }

    operator = (self:$HeapMemory<Type>, rhs:$HeapMemory<Type>) ~> $HeapMemory<Type> {
        if self.points_to_memory {
            free?<Type>(self.data);
        }
        # point to new heap memory
        return &self;
    }
}
```

When heap memory is returned from a function, it passes ownership to its caller:

```rust
func ret_heap_memory() ~> manage $i32 {
    return allocate 1; #allocate creates an instance of a heap wrapper which frees all elements on destruction.
}

func main() {
    let item:manage $i32;
    item = ret_heap_memory();
    # Here!!!
    return 0;
}
```

This means that the `HeapMemory_instance.has_data` is set to `true`.

## Updates

### First Ever Intersect Program Compiled!

The first ever **Intersect** program was compiled today on `Saturday, November 18, 2023 at 8:20 P.M.`.  It doesnt do much, but it is *something!*

```rust
# test.pop

struct Vector<ItemType> {
    data:[ItemType x 5];
}

export func test(num: i32) {
    let my_vec:Vector<i32>;
    
    return;
}
```

Heres the *LLVM-IR* generated by compiling this program.

```llvm
; ModuleID = "./test.pop"
target triple = "unknown-unknown-unknown"
target datalayout = ""

%"Vector_struct_tmp_MMAANNGGLLEE_i32" = type {[5 x i32]}
declare i32 @"printf"(i8* %".1", ...)

declare i8* @"malloc"(i64 %".1")

declare i8* @"realloc"(i8* %".1", i64 %".2")

declare void @"free"(i8* %".1")

@"null" = global i8 0
define void @"test"(i32 %"num")
{
entry:
  %"my_vec" = alloca %"Vector_struct_tmp_MMAANNGGLLEE_i32"
  ; OP::define(stack) START
  ; OP::define(stack) END
  ; OP::return START
  ret void
  ; OP::return END
}
```

## TODO

### Refactor member function namespace/name mangling to all be within the module class.

Or figure out a way to make current solution work.

### Implement Algorithm for Building Order Of Operations Trees:

See description of algorithm in file:

`llvmcompiler/tree_builder/build_tree/operations_parser.py`

### Implement Struct Operators (Not started yet):

 - Operator functions will be prefixed with the `OPERATOR` keyword rather than `func`

 - Destructor operator to decide how to handle memory when out of scope

    All heap allocated values are collected by default.

```rust
struct StructName {
    OPERATOR destructor(self) {
        delete self.heap_allocated_attribute;
    }
}
```

### Major Rework of Garbage Collector And How Heap is Allocated (Done):

```py
{
    let test_md_array: [$[i32]] persist = [
        heap [0,1,2],
        heap [0,1,2],
        heap [0,1,2],
        heap [0,1,2],
        heap [0,1,2]
    ];


    # test_md_array's heap allocated members are freed here at the end of its scope if persist is not used.
    # all heap values become null
}
```

The heap keyword should prefix values instead of variables.  This means that the garbage collector will need to free those values once the memory goes out of scope.

### Implement Float Types For Operators (Not started yet)

Commit message:

Added robust compile time error messages.

readme.md, after:

# **Intersect**

A compiled language that is **explicit and versatile**.

## How it works

**Intersect** compiles utilizing the *LLVMLite* python module by *Numba*.  It utilizes a complex concrete syntax tree to handle it's compile time mechanisms such as it's garbage collector, minimal function/struct emmitter and mangler, automatic typing, and much more.

## Language Conventions and Features

### Comments

**Intersect** uses cPython style comments:

```py
# This is a comment.
```

For multiline comments use:

```py
#:
    This is a multiline/closed comment.
:#
```

### Capitalization

In **Intersect**, keywords are explicitly named.  Ex:

```rust
struct StructName<TemplateType> {

    attribute:TemplateType;

    operator == (self:$StructName<TemplateType>, other:$StructName<TemplateType>) {
        return self.attribute == self.attribute;
    }
}
```

### Robust Compile Time Errors

![alt text](readme_files/CompileTimeErrorExample.png)

Compile time error feedback provides you with a detailed annotated view of the error in your source code.

### Operator Macros (Work in progress)

Operator macros let you implement extra operators with explicit names for classes.  This allows for a more declarative syntax.

```rust
macro operator binary equals;

struct StructName<TemplateType> {

    data:TemplateType;

    operator equals (self:$StructName<TemplateType>, other:$StructName<TemplateType>) ~> bool {
        return self.data == self.data;
    }
}

func main() {
    let s1:StructName<i32>;
    let s2:StructName<i32>;
    s1.data = 1;
    s2.data = 1;

    libc_printf("equal operator result %i\n":$c8, s1 equals s2);
    return;
}
```

### Automatic Memory Management (Work in progress)

**Intersect**'s automatic memory allocation is confined to scope.  `manage` prefixes a *type* as a managed heap allocated type.  `allocate` then returns an instance of something equivalent to this struct:

```rust
macro operator unary clone;

struct HeapMemory<Type>{
    data:$Type;
    has_data:bool;

    operator delete (self:$HeapMemory<Type>) {
        if self.points_to_memory {
            free?<Type>(self.data);
        }
        return;
    }

    operator clone (self:$HeapMemory<Type>) ~> $HeapMemory<Type> {
        # clone self.data
        return #: Clone of self.data :#;
    }

    operator = (self:$HeapMemory<Type>, rhs:$HeapMemory<Type>) ~> $HeapMemory<Type> {
        if self.points_to_memory {
            free?<Type>(self.data);
        }
        # point to new heap memory
        return &self;
    }
}
```

When heap memory is returned from a function, it passes ownership to its caller:

```rust
func ret_heap_memory() ~> manage $i32 {
    return allocate 1; #allocate creates an instance of a heap wrapper which frees all elements on destruction.
}

func main() {
    let item:manage $i32;
    item = ret_heap_memory();
    # Here!!!
    return 0;
}
```

This means that the `HeapMemory_instance.has_data` is set to `true`.

## Updates

### First Ever Intersect Program Compiled!

The first ever **Intersect** program was compiled today on `Saturday, November 18, 2023 at 8:20 P.M.`.  It doesnt do much, but it is *something!*

```rust
# test.pop

struct Vector<ItemType> {
    data:[ItemType x 5];
}

export func test(num: i32) {
    let my_vec:Vector<i32>;
    
    return;
}
```

Heres the *LLVM-IR* generated by compiling this program.

```llvm
; ModuleID = "./test.pop"
target triple = "unknown-unknown-unknown"
target datalayout = ""

%"Vector_struct_tmp_MMAANNGGLLEE_i32" = type {[5 x i32]}
declare i32 @"printf"(i8* %".1", ...)

declare i8* @"malloc"(i64 %".1")

declare i8* @"realloc"(i8* %".1", i64 %".2")

declare void @"free"(i8* %".1")

@"null" = global i8 0
define void @"test"(i32 %"num")
{
entry:
  %"my_vec" = alloca %"Vector_struct_tmp_MMAANNGGLLEE_i32"
  ; OP::define(stack) START
  ; OP::define(stack) END
  ; OP::return START
  ret void
  ; OP::return END
}
```

## TODO

### Refactor member function namespace/name mangling to all be within the module class.

Or figure out a way to make current solution work.

### Implement Algorithm for Building Order Of Operations Trees:

See description of algorithm in file:

`llvmcompiler/tree_builder/build_tree/operations_parser.py`

### Implement Struct Operators (Not started yet):

 - Operator functions will be prefixed with the `OPERATOR` keyword rather than `func`

 - Destructor operator to decide how to handle memory when out of scope

    All heap allocated values are collected by default.

```rust
struct StructName {
    OPERATOR destructor(self) {
        delete self.heap_allocated_attribute;
    }
}
```

### Major Rework of Garbage Collector And How Heap is Allocated (Done):

```py
{
    let test_md_array: [$[i32]] persist = [
        heap [0,1,2],
        heap [0,1,2],
        heap [0,1,2],
        heap [0,1,2],
        heap [0,1,2]
    ];


    # test_md_array's heap allocated members are freed here at the end of its scope if persist is not used.
    # all heap values become null
}
```

The heap keyword should prefix values instead of variables.  This means that the garbage collector will need to free those values once the memory goes out of scope.

### Implement Float Types For Operators (Not started yet)
